Welcome back in this lesson we're going to be introducing you to functions and functions are one of
the most important parts of javascript and coding in general.
Basically what a function does is it allows you to run a piece of code over and over again simply by
calling that piece of code.
So let me give you an example of function.
So you can declare a function or you can define a function by doing using the word function and then
giving it a name.
So I call it my function and using the Round two brackets and with it here we can send some arguments
or parameters and then within the curly brackets.
So this is where all of our code will run.
I'm going to do an alert and actually an alert is a built in function within javascript because you're
going to see the format is the same thing that we use when we're invoking functions.
Now in order to run this function Let me show you what happens we'll save it and refresh it and we don't
actually see anything happening as of yet.
And that's because we actually have to call to the function.
So much like variables in order to see what's in them we need to call out to a function.
So I'm going to open up the console and I'm going to type in my function.
So initially when I type in my function it actually shows me the function code and that's because functions
do need these rounded brackets in order to actually invoke and run a function.
So now when I hit Enter we see that we're running that piece of code that has alert and what's happening
is the alert button is popping up.
And the nice thing about functions is we could use them over and over again.
And we see here within the code that On-Call have this function we see that within the function it's
got a piece of code that says alert with the popup window of hello and we can't run it over and over
you know there's a lot of benefits to being able to do this.
And I'm going to be showing you a lot of examples of how to use functions within your coding and we're
also going to revisit some of the coding examples that we looked at earlier because functions are going
to make them a whole lot better.
So go ahead and open up your editor and create your first function.
So do that by declaring a function using the word function and then give it a name.
So this name can be anything you remember it's the same rules as we have with variables.
So we do need to have that same naming convention.
We also need to be mindful of the fact that this is case sensitive just like the variable names so keep
it unique keep it semantic and keep it meaningful.
And also don't do things where you've got a number in front or any other characters other than the dollar
sign or underscore So the rules are the same as if we were defining variables.
But this is a function.
And then you do need to include the rounded brackets and then place some code between the curly brackets.
So go ahead.
Pause the video.
Create your first function and then open up the console and call that function get it to execute it.
And remember that simply writing the function doesn't actually make and run the code.
You actually have to call on that function after you define the function so you got an opportunity to
try it out.
And if you actually want to invoke it using directly within your code all you have to do is call to
the function via the function name and the same way that you did it with in the console or that we saw
we did it within the console is by using my function and then the rounded brackets and what functions
do is they allow us to reduce the repetition by turning over the ability to run code over and over again
essentially allow us to have a little mini program in here so we can have any number of statements in
here that run all of the code that we want to invoke at a given time within our script.
So it actually gives us full control to call that function at any time and we can call it a number of
times as well.
And as we saw so even if we do it within our code we could have a function call that a number of times
and we see that every time that the function is called then we actually get all of that code that's
being run within the function.
So we see that we've gotta run three times there so when you do declare function make sure that you're
using the function keyword.
You're also doing an a name for the function.
So this is the key word.
Use the function keyword.
Then give it a name.
Use the parentheses where you can contain multiple arguments and information.
And we are going to be looking at that in the upcoming lesson.
And then lastly do the pair of curly brackets containing all of the statements that you want to run.
So let's set up and grab our variable output.
So we're going to create an object doing document and get element by id and then grabbing that output
object from our age to whom else that's going to grab this one over here and that's going to give us
the ability to output content to it.
And then now with him here I'm going to update and I'm going to introduce to you now.
And I just really hope.
And we'll just do a line break there so that we can see that every time we run this function we're actually
up to outputting to Page to know and if we want to the age to mail we can do it that way.
And now I can also open up my console and I can fire off that function which gives me the ability to
simply output hole.
So possibilities are limitless.
You can contain a lot of information with a function.
And we use that code any number of times at any point within your script.
So we also see that when I type in the function here I get returned back on to find.
And that's because every function actually returns back a value.
And I'm going to show you how we can customize that return back value.
Coming up in the next lesson.
But it's important to note that they do return back.
They do return back of value.
So even if it's void or if it's undefined we still get some type of value in return.
So we'll take a closer look at that coming up in the next lesson.